At the moment the articles in our CNS are just text.
Let's add an optional image to each article.
Now we could add this as a column to the articles table in the database using the blob of binary large
object data types.
However relational databases aren't really meant to store binary data like this in the database itself.
It's better to store files separately in the file system.
Let's start by making a copy of the edit article script in the admin folder and call and get edits article
image doppie HP in here.
We still want to do all this at the top.
Restricting access.
Getting the article from the idees in the query string and so on for now will remove the code that processes
the farm once it's submitted will change the page title and remove the edit article form.
Include.
Then in the admin article page let's add a link to this new page.
After the existing edit and delete links passing in the idea of the current article in the query string.
If we view an article in the admin area there's the link and there's the new page.
Now we can add a farm to upload a file to upload files.
The farm needs to use the post method and also have the bank type our encoding type attribute set to
multipart farm data.
Next let's add an input control to upload the file to insert an input control that allows us to select
a file for uploading.
We use an input element with the type set to file.
Let's add a file input and also a label and a containing div element.
I set the name and the idae to file 2 but these can be anything you like.
Remember the name is used to access the data on the server and the idae is used to associate the label
with the farm control.
That's also add a button to submit the farm.
The file input control looks like this with a button that lets you browse the files on your computer.
This will look slightly different depending on your operating system and the browser you are using.
You can select a single file which is what will be uploaded when the form is submitted.
To select more than one file for uploading.
You can either specify the multiple attribute and the farm are simply add more input controls to the
farm.
We only want to upload one file so we'll leave it as it is.
When the form is submitted it will be submitted to itself and it's using the post method so we can process
the farm submission here.
Far.
Other farm controls like text in Pooks text areas and so on.
We access the posted values in the post array data from input file controls however are available in
the files array.
For now.
When the farm is submitted let's just dump out the entire contents of the array like that.
So now if I select a file and submit the form the file is uploaded.
And this is the data in the files array.
There's one file with an index that matches the value of the name attribute on the farm.
Control containing the name of the file its type where it's been loaded to and so on.